Nonlinear internal waves are a very common hydrodynamic phenomenon in a stratified ocean environment. The acoustic wave propagation with the presence of internal waves can result in some drastically changes of arrival signals in a very short period of time and a small space, thus provides challenges for oceanographic, surveillance, sonar applications. There has been an increasing amount of research in this area in recent years. In 2006, a large, multi-disciplinary, multi-institution experiment named SW06 was conducted in the New Jersey coast. Part of its goal is dedicated to the further understanding of the affects of the nonlinear internal waves on the acoustic propagation in shallow water.To help understanding the complicated acoustic arrivals on the receiver array, we developed two numerical models of the propagation of acoustic signal in a 3D waveguide with solitary internal wave included. The first model - horizontal ray vertical mode adiabatic model, while simple, is fast and can qualitatively describe and explain the horizontal focusing/defocusing phenomenon observed during the experiment using ray analogy. The second PE model is more time-consuming but provides a more precise solution to the problem. The theory of both models are described here. A 3D environment is needed in order to carry out the modeling efforts. Using water temperature data collected on various thermistor arrays scattered in the experiment site and the radar images captured on two research vessels, we are able to reconstruct a detailed 3D environment.Two different scenarios are modeled and analyzed. The first is fixed receiver and fixed source scenario. It represents case where the acoustic track propagates through the internal wave fronts with a very small but fixed angle. In the second scenario, a moving source towed by a research vessel gives us a broad angular coverage, which allows us to study the angular dependence of the acoustic propagation. Numeric modeling results show, at small angle, the horizontal sound waveguide formed by internal waves fronts can channel the acoustic energy resulting the fluctuation of the received signal, as the angle increases, the acoustic energy escapes the duct, effectively penetrates the internal wave field, therefore results in more flat and smooth received signal intensity curve. Modeling also shows the different modes escapes/trapped in the internal wave field with different transmitting angle, thus have different contributions in the received signal.  